     CNOL OGV& SO

                      Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani
                      KK Birla Goa Campus
                      Council for Student Affairs

CSA/2025-26/Academics/004                                                                Date: 23rd January 2026


                                              Office Resolution
As part of the activities for the Academic Association Senate, all department Presidents &
Secretaries are hereby requested to conduct a "Handout Compliance Exercise" for all courses being
offered by their departments.

The elected representatives may enlist the helpof other stakeholders & members of the General
Body in this exercise.

The following salient features must be mentioned in the handout:

         Compliance with clause 4.04, Academic Regulations (2023), BITS, Pilani:
         Within one week of the beginning of classwork, the instructor-in-charge/instructor must
         announce tohis/her class/section through a hand-out, the necessary information in respect
         of (i) the operations of the course (its pace, coverage and level of treatment, textbooks and
         other reading assignments, home tasks etc.); (i) various components of evaluation, such as
         tutorials, laboratory exercises, home assignment, several quizzes/tests/examinations
         (announced or unannounced, open book or closed book), regularity of attendance, etc., (ii)
         the frequency, duration, tentative schedule, relative weightage etc. of these various
         components; (iv) the broad policy which governs decisions about make-up; (v) mid-semester
         grading: (vi) grading procedure (overall basis, review of border line cases, effect of class
          average,etc.) and (vi) other matters found desirable and relevant.

         Compliance with clause 4.05, Academic Regulations (2023), BITS, Pilani:
         At least 20% of the evaluation component must be open-book in the form of written tests or
         take-home assignments for a first-degree course.

         Compliance with clause 1.17, Academic Regulations (2023), BITS, Pilani:
         These regulations do not stipulate a minimum attendance percentage before a student is
         permitted to appear in any test/examination.
         Example: Any policy that says "minimum x% attendance or assignment/test won't be
         checked" is not allowed.


                                                                                            OF
                                                                                                 THE
                                                                                                       STUDEN NOI

                                                                                                   CSA)AMPUS
                                                                                                                   CH
                                                                                                               GOA



                                                                                                  ANIKK BIR
                                       Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani    Email: csa.office @roa.bits-pilani.ac.in
                                       KK Birla Goa Campus, NH 178, Bypass Road,          Ofice: B218
                                       Sancoale, Zuarinagar, South Goa
                                       Goa - 403726,India
    Innovate        Bchleve     lead   BITS Pilani(Deemed to be University) established under section 3 of UGC Act, 1956 under
                                       notification no. F.12-23/63. U-2, dated 18th June, 1964
                         Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani
                         KK Birla Goa Campus
                         Council for Student Affairs

           Compliance with inference from clause 4.06, Academic Regulations (2023), BITS,
           Pilani:
           Any student who misses any component of evaluation must immediately approach the
           instructor-in-charge so that the instructor-in-charge, if He/she is satisfied as to the bona fide
           of the request, may arrange as soon as possible a make-up approximating as closely as
           possible the circumstances of the component of evaluation which the student missed.
           Inference - A blanket ban on make-ups for announced quizzes, mid-semesters and other
           components cannot be permitted. The make-up policy must also be clearly enunciated in the
           Handout.


           Compliance with Notification from Office of Dean, AUGS (point 4) dated 02d April
           2025- If the Instructor-in-charge/instructor plans to have surprise assessments as a part of
           the evaluation scheme, it should not exceed 10% of the total evaluation component. It is
           highly recommended that built-in makeup, such as the best N-2 out of N, be incorporated as
           part of it.

           Compliance with Notification from Office of Dean, AUGS (point 4) dated 02nd April 2025
           While regular student attendance is strongly encouraged, instructors and instructors-in
           charge should refrain from assigning direct attendance marks.
           However, attendance may be considered as a distinguishing factor when determining grades
           for students with identical scores who are on the borderline between two grades.

Flow of process for any flagged compliance issue with the handouts -

           Informal class representative OR department President/Secretary must write to the
           IC, requesting them to kindly make the course compliant with AR 2023.
           The department SFC must resolve any pending issues.
           The documentation for the above will be collected shortly for committee discussions.




         al1l26                                                                                                 2o12026
Gandharv Bhoite                 Saksham Adhar                      Ronak Dhawan                     Aryaman Karoliwal
General Secretary, CSA         Treasurer, CSA                      Vice-President, CSA               President, CSA

Copy To:

    1.

    2.
    3.
           CSA Records - Academics File for Records
           Associate Dean, AUGS (Goa) for information
           Director (Goa) for information
                                                                                                                        CSA)AMPUS
                                                                                                                   SPA NIK
                                                                                                                                          CAH




                                                                                                                                      GOA




                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                             K BIRL
                                             Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani   Email: csa.office @goa.bits-pilani.ac.in
                                             KK Birla Goa Campus, NH 17B, Bypass Road,         Office: B218
                                             Sancoale, Zuarinagar, South Goa
                                             Goa - 403726, India
    nnovle           chleve          lead    BITS Pilani (Deemed to be University) established under section 3 of UGC Act, 1956 under
                                             notification no. F.12-23/63. U-2, dated 18th June, 1964
