‘s BITS Pilani

K K Birla Goa Campus

After the review of special body and having more than 2/3" majority along with the CSA, the following
amendments have been submitted for the approval:

1. Part II|-Article 73h: For the coordinators, the candidate must be in the 2nd year of his/her pursued degree course
at the time of filing the nomination if he/she is enrolled for a four year course. However, a student enrolled for the
Dual Degree scheme can apply in both 2nd and 3rd years.

Part III-Article 73i: For the secretaries, the candidate must be in the 1st year of his/her pursued degree course at
the time of filing the nomination.

2. Addition of a new CSA post, The Sports Secretary:
The details according to the Constitution would be as follows:
Powers and Functions of the Sports Secretary:
a. The Sports Secretary shall be responsible for all the activities of Sports Teams under the CSA.
b. The Sports Secretary shall assist treasurer in allocating the budgets of the Sports Teams by the CSA.
c. He/She will oversee the participation of our college sports teams to various other festivals in the country.
Eligibility Criteria for the Post of the Sports Secretary:
a. The candidate must be a member of the General Body.

b. The candidate must not be under the purview of the disciplinary committee at the time of filing of his/her
nomination.

c. The minimum CGPA for a candidate at the time of his/her filing of nomination should be at least 5.5 or more and
there will not be any relaxation in this regard under any circumstances.

d. A student can apply/contest for only one post of the CSA at a time. If a student is found to contest for two posts,
his/her nomination shall be rejected for all the posts for which he/she has filed the nomination.

.% ‘ ; : Re eagles ee
e. A student can contest in as many successive elections as desired provided he/she fulfils other eligibility criteria.

f. The candidate must be in the 2nd year of his/her pursued degree course at the time of filing the nomination if
he/she is enrolled for a four year course. However, a student enrolled for the Dual Degree scheme can contest in
both 2nd and 3rd years.

Term of Office of the Sports Secretary:

a. The Sports Secretary shall hold office for two semesters or till the end of the academic year in which he/she was
elected. He/She shall continue to hold office in the subsequent year until the next Sports Secretary is elected.

Impeachment of the Sports Secretary:

a. The Sports Secretary can only be impeached if the General Body passes a no- confidence motion by 2/3"

a

majority.

b. A no-confidence motion can only be moved by one of the members of the Executive Committee of the CSA after
the approval of the Chairman and the Vice-chairman. The proposal should clearly mention the reason(s) for
dissatisfaction.

c. The member of the Executive Committee of the CSA should have the written consent of more than 50% of the
CSA members prior to forwarding the proposal to the Vice-chairman for approval.


* d. The no-confidence motion has to be tabled in a General Body meeting where the reasons for dissatisfaction are
clearly declared to the members.

e. If an ordinary member of the General Body wants to move a no-confidence motion, he/she should approach any
member of the CSA who will in turn put forth the proposal to other members. If consent is given by more than 50%
members of the CSA, the Executive Committee is bound to forward the proposal to the Vice- chairman.

f. Failure to adherence with the Constitution by the Sports Secretary can lead to his/her expulsion by the Chairman
or Vice-chairman of the CSA.

g. Anew candidate must be appointed to the post by the Election Commission in the manner described in Article 7.

Passed by Special Body Members:

ag " Som .
Drstal® soPZ hws ‘ye Das

Shivam bu ey Siddharth Insan Jaiswal Saumik Chandrakant Soni Dhruvin Rupesh
(2016A1PS0515G) (2016A3PS0148G) (2015A4PS0257G) (2015A7PS0047G)
CSA Members (2017-18):
Oye gg bo ge
Abhinav Gupta Bhaskar Priyadarshi Kuldeep Chachria Dipak Agrawal
(President) (Vice-President) (Treasurer) (General Secretary)
Supervised by: x A go
“g g
AG ef )\
+0” a Lb %
Keval Parikh Aviral Agrawal
(Chief Election Commissioner) (Deputy Election Commissioner)

, 4

Approved by:

bon fol gain

Angshuman Sarkar ¢€ K Ramesha
(Vice Chairman) ; (Associate Dean,SWD)
Chairman

(BITS Pilani K K Birla Goa Campus)

22 MAR 2018

