     Constitution Draft




BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus
                                   Preamble

We, the students of BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus have solemnly resolved to -

protect the rights of the student community by all means available to us; endeavour

to impart a sense of security among the students; promote general welfare; develop

the Institute into a centre of technological excellence. We shall always maintain a

clear view of our ethical responsibility as the citizens of the Sovereign Republic of

India.




                                         2
Part I General Body



Article 1 Membership to the General Body

1a. The General Body constitutes of all the registered students of BITS, Pilani -
Goa Campus by default.

1b. The annual membership fee to be paid by every member of the General Body is
as specified in the current Bulletin.




                                        3
Part II Council of Student Affairs (CSA)



Article 2 Definition of the Council of Student Affairs

2a. The CSA is a body consisting of students elected from the General Body by the
members of the General Body and represents the entire student community of
BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus at the management/administrative level of the
Institute.

Explanation I Institute

The Institute in this entire draft refers to BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus.



Article 3 Composition of the CSA

3a. The CSA will be composed of:

1) Chairman

2) Vice-chairman

3) President

4) Vice-president

5) General Secretary

6) Treasurer

7) Representatives of the Organs of CSA


                                          4
 i)    Student Body for Academic Activities

ii)    Student Body for Disciplinary Activities

iii)   Student Body for Cultural Activities

iv)    Student Body for Sports Activities

 v)    Student Body for Mess Management

vi)    Student Body for Maintenance and Utility Activities

3b. The President, Vice-president, General Secretary and the Treasurer shall
compose the Executive Committee of the CSA.



Article 4 Functioning of the Council of Student Affairs

4a. The CSA is the supreme governing body of all its Organs including the General
Body and its decisions are binding on them.

4b. The quorum of all the meetings of the CSA is 50% of its members. However, at
least two of the members of the Executive Committee of CSA must be present.

4c. The CSA should meet at least thrice a semester.

4d. Any decision that is to be passed must have a simple majority of the CSA.



Article 5 Powers and Functions of the Chairman

5a. The Chairman of the CSA is the Director of BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus,
whose decisions shall be final and binding.
                                            5
5b. The Chairman shall have the right to summon the meetings of the CSA or its
Organs or the General Body.

5c. The Chairman shall have no voting rights on any issues tabled in the meetings.

5d. The Chairman shall have the right to attend any meetings of the CSA and its
Organs.

5e. The Chairman shall have the right to summon any member of the CSA and/or
its organs and seek any required clarification.

5f. The Chairman shall have the right to oversee all the documents pertaining to the
CSA and its Organs.



Article 6 Powers and Functions of the Vice-chairman

6a. The Vice-chairman of the CSA will be the Chief Warden of BITS, Pilani – Goa
Campus and will be answerable to the Chairman of the CSA at all times.

6b. The Vice-chairman shall be invited for all the meetings of the CSA.

6c. The Vice-chairman will have no voting rights on any of the issues tabled in the
meetings of the CSA.

6d. The Vice-chairman shall be responsible in keeping the other faculty members
informed about the activities of the CSA.

6e. The Vice-chairman shall have the right to summon any member of the CSA
and its Organs and seek any required clarifications.



                                            6
6f. The Vice-chairman shall have the right to oversee all the documents pertaining
to the CSA and its Organs.



Article 7 Manner of Selection of the Executive Committee of the CSA

7a. All the members of the CSA except the Student Body for Academic Activities
falling under the Organs of the CSA will be selected by secret ballot elections.

7b. Applications shall be invited by the Election Commission from eligible
candidates within a month of the beginning of the new academic year.

7c. The applicant must clearly state his/her credentials and achievements in the
application form which further must be scrutinized by the Election Commission.

7d. The candidate also needs to submit to the Election Commission a copy of the
manifesto describing the strategies or the course of actions that he/she plans to
pursue in case he/she gets elected for the applied post.

7e. The elections for all posts as described in Clause 7a.; shall be held within six
weeks of the beginning of the new academic year by the Election Commission.

7f. The results of the elections shall be declared within two days of the end of
polling.

7g. It is mandatory for all candidates to adhere to the disciplinary rules of the
Institute and the rules set by the Election Commission.

7h. In the event of a tie among the candidates, their CGPA will be taken as the tie
breaker. The person having a higher CGPA will be declared elected. If the CGPA
is the same then the institutes rank will be taken as the tie breaker.
                                           7
Article 8 Electorate for the Executive Committee of the CSA

8a. The electorate for the post of the Executive Committee of the CSA comprises
all the members of the General Body.



Article 9 Powers and Functions of the President

9a. The President will be responsible for all the activities and decisions of the CSA
and its Organs.

9b. The President shall preside over all the meetings of the CSA.

9c. The President can summon meetings of the CSA, the General Body,
representatives or any of the Clubs that come under the Organs of CSA.

9d. In case of emergency, the President shall have the power to speak on behalf of
the CSA without any prior consultation with the members of the CSA except the
Chairman and the Vice-chairman.

9e. The President shall be responsible for all financial transactions made by the
CSA or on its behalf.

9f. Any bill passed by the CSA with a simple majority should have the President’s
consent.

9g. In case of the President’s disapproval of the bill the President shall send it for
reconsideration at most once.

9h. The President should convene the General Body meeting at least twice a
semester.

                                          8
9i. The President along with the respective council representatives shall be
responsible for all the events that are held by the CSA.

Explanation II General Body Meeting

The General Body meeting is to be presided over by the President of the CSA. All
the Executive Members of the CSA must be present for the meeting. The notice for
the General Body meeting shall be issued by the President at least one week in
advance of the scheduled date of the meeting and be displayed on all hostel notice-
boards. The quorum for the General Body meeting is 20% of the total strength of
the General Body. It is obligatory for the CSA to satisfactorily answer all the
questions/queries raised by the General Body during the meeting.



Article 10 Eligibility Criteria for the Post of the President

10a. The candidate must be a member of the General Body.

10b. The candidate must not be under the purview of the disciplinary committee at
the time of filing of his/her nomination.

10c. The minimum CGPA for a candidate at the time of his/her filing of
nomination should be at least 6.00 or more and there will not be any relaxation in
this regard under any circumstances.

10d. A student can apply/contest for only one post of the CSA at a time. If a
student is found to contest for two posts, his/her nomination shall be rejected for all
the posts for which he/she has filed the nomination.

10e. A student can contest in as many successive elections as desired.

                                            9
10f. The candidate must be in the 3rd year of his/her pursued degree course at the
time of filing the nomination if he/she is enrolled for a four year course. However,
a student enrolled for the Dual Degree scheme can contest in both 3rd and 4th years.



Article 11 Term of Office of the President

11a. The President shall hold office for two semesters or till the end of the
academic year in which he/she was elected. He/She shall continue to hold office in
the subsequent year until the next President is elected.



Article 12 Impeachment of the President

12a. The President can only be impeached if the General Body passes a no-
confidence motion by 2/3rds majority.

12b. A no-confidence motion can only be moved by one of the members of the
Executive Committee of the CSA after the approval of the Chairman and the Vice-
chairman. The proposal should clearly mention the reason(s) for dissatisfaction.

12c. The member of the Executive Committee of the CSA should have the written
consent of more than 50% of the CSA members prior to forwarding the proposal to
the Vice-chairman for approval.

12d. The no-confidence motion has to be tabled in a General Body meeting where
the reasons for dissatisfaction are clearly declared to the members.

12e. If an ordinary member of the General Body wants to move a no-confidence
motion, he/she should approach any member of the CSA who will in turn put forth
                                          10
the proposal to other members. If consent is given by more than 50% members of
the CSA, the Executive Committee is bound to forward the proposal to the Vice-
chairman.

12f. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by the President can lead to his/her
expulsion by the Chairman or Vice-chairman of the CSA.

12g. A new candidate must be appointed to the post by the Election Commission in
the manner described in Article 7.



Article 13 Powers and Functions of the Vice-president

13a. The Vice-president shall assume all the powers of the president in the
following cases:

1) In the absence of the President.

2) When a no-confidence motion has been passed against the President.

13b. In the absence of the President for any meetings of the CSA, the Vice-
president shall preside over them.

13c. The Vice-president shall be responsible for all the activities of the Clubs.
(Refer to Part IV for more details.)

13d. The Vice-president along with the President shall be jointly responsible for all
the events organized by the CSA.




                                         11
Article 14 Eligibility Criteria for the Post of the Vice-president

14a. They are the same as that of the post of the President. (Refer to Article 10 for
more details.)



Article 15 Term of Office of the Vice-president

15a. The Vice-president shall hold office for two semesters or till the end of the
academic year in which he/she was elected. He/She shall continue to hold office in
the subsequent year until the next Vice-president is elected.



Article 16 Impeachment of the Vice-president

16a. The Vice-president can only be impeached if the General Body passes a no-
confidence motion by 2/3rds majority.

16b. A no-confidence motion can only be moved by one of the members of the
Executive Committee of the CSA after the approval of the Chairman and the Vice-
chairman. The proposal should clearly mention the reason(s) for dissatisfaction.

16c. The member of the Executive Committee should have the written consent of
more than 50% of the CSA members prior to forwarding the proposal to the Vice-
chairman for approval.

16d. The no-confidence motion has to be tabled in a General Body meeting where
the reasons for dissatisfaction are clearly declared to the members.




                                         12
16e. If an ordinary member of the General Body wants to move a no-confidence
motion, he/she should approach any member of the CSA who will in turn put forth
the proposal to other members. If consent is given by more than 50% members of
the CSA, the Executive Committee is bound to forward the proposal to the Vice-
chairman.

16f. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by the Vice-president can lead to
his/her disentitlement by the Chairman or Vice-chairman of the CSA.

16g. A new candidate must be appointed to the post by the Election Commission in
the manner described in Article 7.



Article 17 Powers and Functions of the General Secretary

17a. The General Secretary shall over see the reports submitted by the Council
Representatives.

17b. The General Secretary sets the agenda for all the meetings of the CSA on the
basis of the reports received by him/her from the Council Representatives and
forwards the agenda to the President and the Vice-president.

17c. Under the discretion of the General Secretary, any topic put forward by the
Council Representatives, other than that on the agenda, can be taken up for
discussion.

17d. The General Secretary must circulate the minutes of all meetings of CSA to
all its members and the General body within 48 hours of the adjournment of the
meeting.


                                        13
17e. The General Secretary shall bring to the notice of the General body all the
activities of the CSA.

17f. The General Secretary shall be responsible for maintaining an inventory of all
property owned by all the Organs of the CSA.



Article 18 Eligibility Criteria for the Post of the General Secretary

18a. The candidate must be a member of the General Body.

18b. The candidate must not be under the purview of the disciplinary committee at
the time of filing of his/her nomination.

18c. The minimum CGPA for a candidate at the time of his/her filing of
nomination should be at least 6.00 or more and there will not be any relaxation in
this regard under any circumstances.

18d. A student can apply/contest for only one post of the CSA at a time. If a
student is found to contest for two posts, his/her nomination shall be rejected for all
the posts for which he/she has filed the nomination.

18e. A student can contest in as many successive elections as desired.

18f. The candidate must be in the 2nd year of his/her pursued degree course (single
degree of dual degree) at the time of filing the nomination.




                                            14
Article 19 Term of Office of the General Secretary

19a. The General Secretary shall hold office for two semesters or till the end of the
academic year in which he/she was elected. He/She shall continue to hold office in
the subsequent year until the next General Secretary is elected.



Article 20 Impeachment of the General Secretary

20a. The General Secretary can only be impeached if the General Body passes a
no-confidence motion by 2/3rds majority.

20b. A no-confidence motion can only be moved by one of the members of the
Executive Committee of the CSA after the approval of the Chairman and the Vice-
chairman. The proposal should clearly mention the reason(s) for dissatisfaction.

20c. The member of the Executive Committee should have the written consent of
more than 50% of the CSA members prior to forwarding the proposal to the Vice-
chairman for approval.

20d. The no-confidence motion has to be tabled in a General Body meeting where
the reasons for dissatisfaction are clearly declared to the members.

20e. If an ordinary member of the General Body wants to move a no-confidence
motion, he/she should approach any member of the CSA who will in turn put forth
the proposal to other members. If consent is given by more than 50% members of
the CSA, the Executive Committee is bound to forward the proposal to the Vice-
chairman.



                                           15
20f. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by the General Secretary can lead to
his/her disentitlement by the Chairman or Vice-chairman of the CSA.

20g. A new candidate must be appointed to the post by the Election Commission in
the manner described in Article 7.



Article 21 Powers and Functions of the Treasurer

21a. The Treasurer shall be responsible for all financial transactions of the CSA.

21b. All the budgetary issues have to be handled in the following way:

21b.1 The Treasurer shall present the annual budget of the CSA to the General
Body within a month of his/her election to the post.

21b.2 At least 10% of the finances/resources available should be allocated for
funding of engineering/research projects done by students or for technical activities
in the campus.

21b.3 At least 10% of the finances/resources available should be dedicated for
cultural/social activities or entertainment activities of the General Body.

21b.4 At least 10% of the finances/resources available should be dedicated for
sports activities in the campus.

21b.5 At least 10% of the finances/resources available should be saved and
maintained as contingency fund.

21c. The Treasurer shall submit the proposed budget of all the events happening in
the campus at least one month before the event to the CSA.

                                          16
21d. The Treasurer shall submit reports regarding the expenditure incurred during
all events organized by the CSA to the General Secretary before the consequent
meeting after the event.

21e. Allocation and utilization of funds for any Organs coming under the CSA
requires the consent of the Treasurer and all members of the Executive Committee
of the CSA and the Treasurer shall submit a report regarding the same to the
General Secretary.

21f. At the end of the tenure, the Treasurer along with the General Secretary shall
present a report of all the financial transactions of the year to the General Body in
the presence of the President and Vice-president.

Explanation III Campus

The campus is referred to as the premises of BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus.

Explanation IV CSA Funds

The membership fee paid by every registered student (Refer Clause 1b.) will
cumulatively constitute the CSA Fund.



Article 22 Eligibility Criteria for the Post of the Treasurer

22a. They are the same as that of the post of the President. (Refer to Article 10 for
more details.)




                                         17
Article 23 Term of Office of the Treasurer

23a. The Treasurer shall hold office for two semesters or till the end of the
academic year in which he/she was elected. He/She shall continue to hold office in
the subsequent year until the next Treasurer is elected.



Article 24 Impeachment of the Treasurer

24a. The Treasurer can only be impeached if the General Body passes a no-
confidence motion by 2/3rds majority.

24b. A no-confidence motion can only be moved by one of the members of the
Executive Committee of the CSA after the approval of the Chairman and the Vice-
chairman. The proposal should clearly mention the reason(s) for dissatisfaction.

24c. The member of the Executive Committee should have the written consent of
more than 50% of the CSA members prior to forwarding the proposal to the Vice-
chairman for approval.

24d. The no-confidence motion has to be tabled in a General Body meeting where
the reasons for dissatisfaction are clearly declared to the members.

24e. If an ordinary member of the General Body wants to move a no-confidence
motion, he/she should approach any member of the CSA who will in turn put forth
the proposal to other members. If consent is given by more than 50% members of
the CSA, the Executive Committee is bound to forward the proposal to the Vice-
chairman.



                                         18
24f. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by the Treasurer can lead to his/her
disentitlement by the Chairman or Vice-chairman of the CSA.

24g. A new candidate must be appointed to the post by the Election Commission in
the manner described in Article 7.



Article 25 Organs of the Council of Student Affairs

25a. The different Organs of the CSA are:

   1) Student Body for Academic Activities

   2) Student Body for Disciplinary Activities

   3) Student Body for Cultural Activities

   4) Student Body for Sports Activities

   5) Student Body for Mess Management

   6) Student Body for Maintenance and Utility Activities

25b. The Student Body for Disciplinary Activities is no standing body but may be
formed by the Executive Committee of the CSA with the approval of the Chairman
and Vice-chairman. The Student Body for Disciplinary Activities may be dissolved
by the Executive Committee of the CSA with the approval of the Chairman and
Vice-chairman whenever deemed essential or necessary. The powers, functions
and the term of the Student Body for Disciplinary Activities Members are defined
by the Executive Committee of the CSA in consultation with the Chairman and
Vice-chairman.

                                       19
Article 26 Composition of the Student Body for Academic Activities

26a. It consists of one representative from each discipline of the single degree and
dual degree programs.

26b. One individual cannot represent more than one Academic Association.



Article 27 Powers and Functions of the Student Body for Academic Activities

27a. They must study and request improvements in the academic infrastructure of
the Institute as and when necessary.

27b. They must study and request improvements/changes in the course structure
(academic curriculum) as and when necessary to the respective Instructor In-
charges or the Group Leader.

27c. They must collect feedback from the students regarding the academic
facilities and forward it to the Instructor In-charge or the Group Leader.

27d. They may suggest to the Group Leader new electives to be offered.

27e. They can organize science exhibitions and book fairs to improve the academic
environment of the Institute.



Article 28 Manner of Selection of the Student Body for Academic Activities

28a. The members of the Student Body for Academic Activities will be selected by
the Executive Committee of different Academic Associations in consultation with
the Faculty In-charges.
                                          20
28b. Applications shall be invited from eligible candidates within one week of the
formation of the new Executive Committee, CSA.

28c. The applicant must clearly state his/her credentials and achievements in the
application form which further must be scrutinized by the Faculty In-charge.

28d. The candidate also needs to submit a copy of the strategies or the course of
actions that he/she plans to pursue in case he/she gets selected for the Student
Body for Academic Activities.

28e. By the end of second week of the tenure of the Executive Committee, CSA,
the selected candidate must be informed to the Election Commission.



Article 29 Eligibility Criteria for the Post of Student Body for Academic
Activities

29a. The candidate must be a member of the General Body.

29b. The candidate must have never ever been under the purview of the
disciplinary committee.

29c. The minimum CGPA for a candidate at the time of his/her filing of
nomination should be at least 8.00 or more and there will not be any relaxation in
this regard under any circumstances.

29d. A student can apply/contest for only one post of the CSA at a time. If a
student is found to contest for two posts, his/her nomination shall be rejected for all
the posts for which he/she has filed the nomination.



                                          21
29e. The candidate must be in the 3rd year of his/her pursued degree course at the
time of filing the nomination if he/she is enrolled for a four year course. However,
a student enrolled for the Dual Degree scheme can apply in both 3rd and 4th years.

29f. The candidate can apply to represent only the discipline whose Compulsory
Disciplinary Courses (CDCs) have been either completed or registered for at the
time of filling the nomination.



Article 30 Term of Office of the Student Body for Academic Activities

30a. The members of the Student Body for Academic Activities shall hold office
for two semesters or till the end of the academic year in which they were selected.
They will continue to be in office in the subsequent year until the next members
have been selected.



Article 31 Impeachment of the Member of the Student Body for Academic
Activities

31a. If the Executive Committee of the Association is dissatisfied by the conduct
or policies of their representative, they must first give a written warning to the
candidate clearly mentioning the reason(s) and ask for necessary clarifications and
then inform the Faculty In-charge about this matter.

31b. If the behaviour/performance still remains unsatisfactory, the Executive
Committee of the Academic Association in consultation with the Faculty In-charge
may impeach the member from the Student Body for Academic Activities.


                                         22
31c. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by any of the members of the Student
Body for Academic Activities can lead to their disentitlement by the Chairman or
Vice-chairman of the CSA.

31d. A new candidate must be appointed to the post by the Executive Committee
of the Academic Association in the manner described in Article 28.



Article 32 Composition of the Student Body for Cultural Activities

32a. It consists of one representative from each hostel present in the Institute.



Article 33 Powers and Functions of the Student Body for Cultural Activities

33a. They should promote cultural activities among students. They can organize
cultural events suitable for special occasions to achieve the same.

33b. They may procure the necessary infrastructure from the CSA for the activities
organized and conducted by the Student Body.

33c. They must oversee the usage of funds allotted to the Student Body.

33d. They must meet at least twice in a month.



Article 34 Manner of Selection of the Student Body for Cultural Activities

34a. Refer to Article 7 for the procedure.



                                          23
Article 35 Electorate for the Student Body for Cultural Activities

35a. The members to the Student Body for Cultural Activities will be elected by
the General Body members residing in their respective hostels.



Article 36 Eligibility Criteria for the Student Body for Cultural Activities

36a. The candidate must be a member of the General Body.

36b. The candidate must not be under the purview of the disciplinary committee at
the time of filing of his/her nomination.

36c. The minimum CGPA for a candidate at the time of his/her filing of
nomination should be at least 6.00 or more and there will not be any relaxation in
this regard under any circumstances.

36d. A student can apply/contest for only one post of the CSA at a time. If a
student is found to contest for two posts, his/her nomination shall be rejected for all
the posts for which he/she has filed the nomination.

36e. A student can contest in as many successive elections as desired.



Article 37 Term of Office of the Student Body for Cultural Activities

37a. The members of the Student Body for Cultural Activities shall hold office for
two semesters or till the end of the academic year in which they were elected. They
will continue to be in office in the subsequent year until the next members have
been elected.

                                            24
Article 38 Impeachment of the Member of the Student Body for Cultural
Activities

38a. If any ordinary member of the General Body or the CSA is dissatisfied by the
conduct or policies of the member of Student Body for Cultural Activities, he/she
must complain to the Executive Committee of the CSA and inform the reason(s)
for dissatisfaction.

38b. The Executive Committee of the CSA might in turn ask for necessary
clarifications from the member against whom the complaint has been received.

38c. If the behaviour/performance still remains unsatisfactory, the Executive
Committee of the CSA in consultation with the Chairman and Vice-chairman
might table a no-confidence motion in the CSA meeting.

38d. If the no-confidence motion is passed with 2/3rds majority, the member stands
impeached.

38e. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by any of the members of the Student
Body for Cultural Activities can lead to their disentitlement by the Chairman or
Vice-chairman of the CSA.

38f. A new candidate must be appointed to the post by the Election Commission in
the manner described in Article 7.

Explanation V CSA Meeting

The CSA meeting is to be presided over by the President of the CSA. All the
Executive Members of the CSA must be present for this meeting. The notice for
this meeting shall be issued by the President at least one week in advance of the


                                        25
scheduled date of the meeting and be displayed on all hostel notice-boards. The
quorum for the meeting is 50% of the total strength of the CSA.



Article 39 Composition of the Student Body for Sports Activities

39a. It consists of one representative from each hostel present in the Institute.



Article 40 Powers and Functions of the Student Body for Sports Activities

40a. They should promote sports activities among students. They may organize
sports events and tournaments to achieve the same.

40b. They should try to procure all the infrastructure needed for any kind of sport
as and when necessary.

40c. They are responsible for maintenance of all sports equipment and playground.

40d. They are responsible for the maintenance of an inventory of all the sports
facilities.

40e. They must be overlook and supervise the organization of SPREE, annual
Sports Meet of the Institute.

40f. They must oversee the usage of funds allotted to the Student Body.

40g. They must meet at least twice in a month.




                                          26
Article 41 Manner of Selection of the Student Body for Sports Activities

41a. Refer to Article 7 for the procedure.



Article 42 Electorate for the Student Body for Sports Activities

42a. The members to the Student Body for Sports Activities will be elected by the
General Body members residing in their respective hostels.



Article 43 Eligibility Criteria for the Student Body for Sports Activities

43a. Refer to Article 36 for the eligibility criteria.



Article 44 Term of Office of the Student Body for Sports Activities

44a. The members of the Student Body for Sports Activities shall hold office for
two semesters or till the end of the academic year in which they were elected. They
will continue to be in office until the next members have been elected.



Article 45 Impeachment of the Member of the Student Body for Sports
Activities

45a. Refer to Article 38 for the procedure.




                                            27
Article 46 Composition of the Student Body for Mess Management

46a. It consists of one representative from each hostel present in the Institute.



Article 47 Powers and Functions of the Student Body for Mess Management

47a. They should ensure that the quality of food is satisfactory to the students.

47b. They should prepare a menu by collecting feedback from all the students of
their respective hostels.

47c. They should modify the menu according to the needs of the students.

47d. They should forward their suggestions pertaining to the amounts chargeable
to the students in the mess and cafeteria.

47e. In case of any grievances of the students, they may approach the President of
the CSA or the Vice-chairman of the CSA.

47f. They must oversee the usage of funds allotted to the Student Body.

47g. They must meet at least twice in a month.



Article 48 Manner of Selection of the Student Body for Mess Management

48a. Refer To Article 7 for the procedure.




                                             28
Article 49 Electorate for the Student Body for Mess Management

49a. The members to the Student Body for Mess Management will be elected by
the General Body members residing in their respective hostels.



Article 50 Eligibility Criteria for the Student Body for Mess Management

50a. Refer to Article 36 for the eligibility criteria.



Article 51 Term of Office of the Student Body for Mess Management

51a. The members of the Student Body for Mess Management shall hold office for
two semesters or till the end of the academic year in which they were elected. They
will continue to be in office in the subsequent year until the next members have
been elected.



Article 52      Impeachment of the Member of the Student Body for Mess
Management

52a. Refer to Article 38 for the procedure.



Article 53 Composition of the Student Body for Maintenance and Utility
Activities

53a. It consists of one representative from each hostel present in the Institute.

                                            29
Article 54 Powers and Functions of the Student Body for Maintenance and
Utility Activities

54a. They must look after the maintenance of the hostels by addressing the day-to-
day complaints from the students.

54b. They must also look after the maintenance of campus during any exhibition
and festivals.

54c. If any student is found damaging the property of the Institute, he/she must be
immediately reported to the concerned authority. This includes maintenance of all
the facilities provided by the Institute to the hostel.

54d. They must keep track of the electricity bills provided by the Institute and
verify the same.

54e. They must oversee the usage of funds allotted to the Student Body.

54f. They must meet at least twice in a month.



Article 55 Manner of Selection of the Student Body for Maintenance and
Utility Activities

55a. Refer To Article 7 for the procedure.




                                            30
Article 56     Electorate for the Student Body for Maintenance and Utility
Activities

56a. The members to the Student Body for Maintenance and Utility Activities will
be elected by the General Body members residing in their respective hostels.



Article 57 Eligibility Criteria for the Student Body for Maintenance and
Utility Activities

57a. Refer to Article 36 for the eligibility criteria.



Article 58 Term of Office of the Student Body for Maintenance and Utility
Activities

58a. The members of the Student Body for Maintenance and Utility Activities shall
hold office for two semesters or till the end of the academic year in which they
were elected. They will continue to be in office in the subsequent year until the
next members have been elected.



Article 59 Impeachment of the Member of the Student Body for Maintenance
and Utility Activities

59a. Refer to Article 38 for the procedure.




                                            31
Article 60 The Student Body Representatives

60a. Two individuals (one among the boys and one among the girls) will be elected
from the Student Body for Cultural Activities, Sports Activities, Mess
Management and Hostel Management to represent their respective Student Bodies
in the CSA.

61a. Two individuals from the Student Body for Academic Activities (one
representing the single degree program and one representing the dual degree
program) will be elected to represent the Student Body for Academic Activities in
the CSA.



Article 61 Powers and Functions of the Student Body Representatives

61a. The Student Body Representative will represent his/her respective Student
Body in the CSA.

61b. The Student Body Representative must submit a report about the happenings
of the respective Student Body and the various Clubs that comes under their
Student Body, once in a month to the General Secretary.

61c. The Student Body Representative must forward any issues raised by the
Clubs/Association that comes under his/her Student Body to the CSA through the
General Secretary.

61d. Any financial request made by the various Clubs/Association that comes
under his/her Student Body shall be routed through the Treasurer to the CSA.

61e. The Student Body Representative shall actively take part in the discussions on
all issues taken up by the CSA.
                                        32
Article 62 Manner of Selection of the Student Body Representatives

62a. All the Student Body Representatives viz. Student Body for Academic
Activities, Student Body for Cultural Activities, Sports Activities, Mess
Management and Maintenance and Utility Management will be selected by secret
ballot elections.

62b. Applications shall be invited by the Election Commission from eligible
candidates within one week of the declaration of the CSA polling results.

62c. The applicant must clearly state his/her credentials and achievements in the
application form which further must be ratified by the Election Commission.

62d. The candidate also needs to submit to the Election Commission a copy of the
manifesto describing the strategies or the course of actions that he/she plans to
pursue in case he/she gets elected for the applied post.

62e. The elections for the posts of all Hostel Representatives as described in
Clause 62a. shall be held within two weeks of the declaration of the CSA polling
results by the Election Commission.

62f. The results of the elections shall be declared within two days of the end of
polling.

62g. It is mandatory for all candidates to adhere to the disciplinary rules of the
Institute and the rules set by the Election Commission.

62f. In the event of a tie among the candidates, their CGPA will be taken as the tie
breaker. The person having a higher CGPA will be declared elected. If the CGPA
is the same then the institutes rank will be taken as the tie breaker.


                                           33
Article 63 Electorate for the Student Body Representatives

63a. The Student Body Representatives as mentioned in Clause 62a. will be elected
by the elected members of their respective Student Body.



Article 64 Eligibility Criteria for the Student Body Representatives

64a. The candidate must be a member of the General Body.

64b. The candidate must not be under the purview of the disciplinary committee at
the time of filing of his/her nomination.

64c. The minimum CGPA for a candidate contesting for the post of Student Body
Representative (as mentioned in Clause 60a.) at the time of his/her filing of
nomination should be at least 6.00 or more and there will not be any relaxation in
this regard under any circumstances.

64d. For the Student Body for Academic Activities Representative, a minimum
CGPA of 8.00 or more is required and there will not be any relaxation in this
regard under any circumstances.

64e. A student can contest in as many successive elections as desired.

64f. The candidate must be in the 3rd year of his/her pursued degree course at the
time of filing the nomination if he/she is enrolled for a four year course. However,
a student enrolled for the Dual Degree scheme can contest in both 3rd and 4th years.




                                            34
Article 65 Term of Office of the Student Body Representatives

65a. The Student Body Representatives shall hold office for two semesters or till
the end of the academic year in which they were elected. They shall remain in
office in the subsequent year until the next Student Body Representatives have
been elected.



Article 66 Impeachment of the Student Body Representatives

66a. If any ordinary member of the General Body or the CSA is dissatisfied by the
conduct or policies of the member of Student Body Representative, he/she must
complain to the Executive Committee of the CSA and inform the reason(s) for
dissatisfaction.

66b. The Executive Committee of the CSA might in turn ask for necessary
clarifications from the representative against whom the complaint has been
received.

66c. If the behaviour/performance still remains unsatisfactory, the Executive
Committee of the CSA in consultation with the Chairman and Vice-chairman
might table a no-confidence motion in a CSA meeting where the Executive
Committee of the CSA and the respective Student Body members only are invited.

66d. The quorum for the meeting as mentioned in Clause 66c. is 70% of the total
number of invited members.

66e. If the no-confidence motion is passed with 2/3rds majority, the representative
stands impeached.


                                        35
66f. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by any of the Student Body
Representatives can lead to their expulsion by the Chairman or Vice-chairman of
the CSA.

66g. A new candidate must be appointed to the post by the Election Commission in
the manner described in Article 62.



Article 67 Resignation Procedure for a Member of the Council of Student
Affairs

67a. Any member of the CSA may resign at any point of their tenure by submitting
a resignation letter to the President, Council of Student Affairs. The reasons for the
resignation must be clearly mentioned in the letter.

67b. The President of the CSA will in turn forward the letter to the Chairman and
Vice-chairman of the CSA for their approval. After the approval of the Chairman,
the member stands resigned.

67c. In case, the President of the CSA wishes to resign, he/she may submit the
resignation letter to the Executive Committee of the CSA who in turn will forward
the letter to the Chairman and Vice-chairman of the CSA.

67d. The vacancy of the post arising due to resignation is to be filled by the
Election Commission in a manner in which ordinarily an individual to that post
would be selected.




                                         36
Article 68 Certification Policy for the Council of Student Affairs

68a. The members of the Executive Committee of an Academic Association will
be awarded a Certificate of Appreciation for their performance at the end of the
tenure.

68b. The Certificate will bear the Logo of the BITS, Pilani University and the
signatures of Director, BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus and the Vice-chairman of the
Council of Student Affairs.

68c. All other members of the CSA will also receive a Certificate of Appreciation
at the end of their term. This certificate must bear the Logo of the BITS, Pilani
University and the signatures of the Vice-chairman, CSA and the President,
Council of Student Affairs.

68d. In case, a member of the CSA resigns from his/her post or is expelled due to
any reason before the end of the tenure, he/she will not be awarded a Certificate.




                                         37
Part III Academic Associations



Article 69 Objectives of an Academic Association

69a. To enhance the theoretical and practical knowledge of subjects included in the
curriculum and upcoming areas of science, technology and humanities.

69b. To guide students by organizing presentations and guest lectures on recent
advancements in different fields and other topics of interest.

69c. To organize and manage events in the technical festival of the Institute.

69d. To organize educational tours to industries, research laboratories, other
academic institutes or any other appropriate site after the approval of the CSA.

69e. To foster closer relationship between senior and junior students; between
students and the faculty, and encourage joint efforts leading to the overall
development of all individuals.



Article 70 Composition of an Academic Association

70a. The association comprises of an Executive Committee, Sub-committees and
the Common Body.

70b. The Executive Committee of an Academic Association comprises of:

1) Coordinator

2) Sub-coordinator

                                          38
3) Secretary

70c. The students holding the posts in the Executive Committee and the Sub-
committees will be referred to as the Office Bearers.

70d. All the students from the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th year receiving a
degree in a particular department (as mentioned in the Identification Number
provided by the Institute) are members of the Common Body of their respective
Association by default. Exceptions are allowed as per Clause 70d.

70d. A student receiving a dual degree is a member of both academic associations
in his/her 2nd year, and a member of the academic association whose CDCs are
being pursued in his/her current academic year (3rd, 4th or 5th year) only.

70e. The Executive Committee of an Association may authorize the formation of
different Sub-committees as deemed appropriate by them in consultation with the
Faculty In-charge, Academic Association.

70f. Every Academic Association is supervised by a Faculty In-charge who is
appointed by the Group Leader of that Department.



Article 71 Powers and Functions of the Executive Committee of the Academic
Association

71a. The power and functions for the Coordinator are as follows:

71a.1 The Coordinator has to monitor and control the activities of the Sub-
coordinator, Secretary and all other Sub-committees.

71a.2 The Coordinator must organize the Common Body meetings and chair them.
                                          39
71a.3 The Coordinator must keep a record of all the activities of the Academic
Association.

71a.4 The Coordinator may approve or modify the activities proposed by other
members of the Common Body.

71a.5 The Coordinator acts as a link between the Academic Association and the
CSA.

71a.6 The Coordinator acts as a link between the Academic Association and the
Faculty In-charge.

71b. The power and functions for the Sub-coordinator are as follows:

71b.1 The Sub-coordinator has to prepare the budget of the Academic Association
for the two semesters of the academic year.

71b.2 The Sub-coordinator has to present the accounts to the CSA and the
Common Body at the end of each semester. The accounts must clearly mention the
funds raised, funds spent, balance amount and the means by which funds were
raised.

71b.3 The Sub-coordinator must control all the expenses made by the Academic
Association.

71b.4 The Sub-coordinator must maintain a record of the expenses regularly and
submit it to the Treasurer, CSA at least once a month.

71b.5 The Sub-coordinator must keep the Faculty In-charge of the Academic
Association informed of all the monetary issues.

71b.6 The Sub-coordinator acts as the Coordinator in his/her absence.
                                        40
71c. The power and functions for the Secretary are as follows:

71c.1 The Secretary must maintain the minutes of all Common Body meetings.

71c.2 The Secretary has to plan activities and events for the two semesters in an
academic year.

71c.3 The Secretary must keep the Coordinator and the Sub-coordinator informed
about the Sub-committees.

71c.4 The Secretary has to prepare and maintain all the essential documents of the
Academic Association.

71c.5 The Secretary acts as the Sub-coordinator in his/her absence and as the
Coordinator in the absence of both the Coordinator and the Sub-Coordinator.

71d. The Sub-committees must perform the duties and roles as assigned by the
Executive Committee of the Academic Association.

Explanation VI Common Body Meeting

The Common Body meeting is to be presided over by the Coordinator of the
Academic Association. All the Executive Members of the Academic Association
must be present for the meeting. The notice for the Common Body meeting shall
be issued by the Coordinator at least one week in advance of the scheduled date of
the meeting and be displayed on all hostel notice-boards. The quorum for the
Common Body meeting is 20% of the total strength of the Common Body. It is
obligatory for the Executive Committee of the Academic Association to
satisfactorily answer all the questions/queries raised by the Common Body during
the meeting.


                                        41
Article 72 Manner of Selection of the Office Bearers

72a. The Executive Committee of the Academic Association will be elected by a
simple majority of the Common Body of the respective Academic Association.

72b. The outgoing Office Bearers shall organize the selection process of the next
Office Bearers.

72c. The candidates interested in contesting for the posts of the Executive
Committee of the Academic Association are required to give their credentials
including their technical, research and managerial experience along with a
Statement of Purpose in writing to the out-going Executive Committee of the
Academic Association.

72d. The Statement of Purpose must clearly indicate the objectives of the candidate
and the strategies planned to achieve these objectives.

72e. It is mandatory for every candidate to submit the manifesto for elections to the
office bearers which is scrutinized by the Office Bearers as well as the Faculty In-
charge of the Academic Association.

72f. Any number of nominations are invited the posts of the Executive Committee.

72g. The electorate body will consist of all the members of the Common Body.
The Faculty In-charge of the Academic Association has no right to vote.

72h. The elections should be held in the presence of the Faculty In-charge and the
out-going Executive Committee of the Academic Association.

72i. The entire selection process including the declaration of results must be
completed at least one week before the start of the Comprehensive Examination of

                                         42
the second semester of an academic year. The President, CSA has to be informed
by the Acting Coordinator about the results of the selection process.

72j. In the event of a tie among the candidates, the CGPA of the candidates will be
taken as the tie breaker, the candidate having a higher CGPA will be declared as
elected. If the CGPA are the same then the institute rank will be taken as the tie
breaker.

72k. The Executive Committee of the Academic Association will select the
members of the various Sub-committees. All decisions regarding the selection
process of the Sub-committees rests with the Executive Committee of the
Academic Association.



Article 73 Eligibility Criteria for the Posts of the Executive Committee

73a. The candidate must be a member of the General Body and the Common Body.

73b. The candidate must not be under the purview of the disciplinary committee at
the time of filing of his/her nomination.

73c. The candidate should not have been under the purview of the DISCO for more
than once at the time of filing the nomination.

73d. The minimum CGPA for a candidate at the time of his/her filing of
nomination should be at least 6.00 or more and there will not be any relaxation in
this regard under any circumstances.




                                            43
73e. A student can apply/contest for only one post of the Academic Association at
a time. If a student is found to contest for two posts, his/her nomination shall be
rejected for all the posts for which he/she has filed the nomination.

73f. A student holding a post in the CSA is not permitted to contest for any post of
the Academic Association.

73g. A student can contest in as many successive elections as desired provided all
eligibility criteria are fulfilled.

73h. For the post of the Coordinator and the Sub-coordinator, the candidate must
be in the 3rd year of his/her pursued degree course at the time of filing the
nomination if he/she is enrolled for a four year course. However, a student enrolled
for the Dual Degree scheme can contest in both 3rd and 4th year.

73i. For the post of the Secretary, the candidate must be in the 2nd year of his/her
pursued degree course at the time of filing the nomination.

73j. The candidate interested in being a part of the Sub-committee must qualify for
all the pre-requisites (if any) declared by the Executive Committee of the
Academic Association.



Article 74 Term of the Office Bearers

74a. The Office Bearers shall hold office for two semesters or till the end of the
academic year in which they were elected.

74b. In the consecutive academic year, they will be the Acting Office Bearers until
the next Office Bearers have been elected.

                                          44
Article 75 Impeachment of the Office Bearers

75a. The Office Bearers may be impeached if the Common Body passes a no-
confidence motion by 2/3rds majority.

75b. A no-confidence motion can only be moved by one of the members of the
Executive Committee of the Academic Association after the approval of the
President, CSA and the Faculty In-charge of the Academic Association. The
proposal should clearly mention the reason(s) for dissatisfaction.

75c. The no-confidence motion has to be tabled in a Common Body meeting where
the reasons for dissatisfaction are clearly declared to the members.

75d. If an ordinary member of the Common Body wants to move a no-confidence
motion, he/she should approach any member of the Executive Committee of the
CSA or the Academic Association.

75e. The President, Council of Student Affairs has the authority to impeach a
member of the Executive Committee of the Academic Association in consultation
with the Faculty In-charge and the Common Body of the Academic Association.

75f. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by any of the Office Bearers can lead
to their disentitlement by the Faculty In-Charge.

75g. A new candidate must be appointed by the remainder of the Executive
Committee of the Academic Association in the manner described in Article 72.

75h. The Executive Committee of the Academic Association may dissolve a Sub-
committee or impeach any of its members.



                                         45
Article 76 Resignation Procedure for the Office Bearers

76a. The Office Bearers may resign at any point of their tenure by submitting a
resignation letter to the President, Council of Student Affairs. The reasons for the
resignation must be clearly mentioned in the letter.

76b. The resignation of the Coordinator, Sub-coordinator and Secretary has to be
approved by the President, Council of Student Affairs and then the Faculty In-
charge of the Academic Association.

76c. The vacancy of a post arising due to resignation is to be filled within a time
period of two weeks by the selection procedure mentioned in Article 71.

76d. The members of the Sub-committee may resign by submitting a resignation
letter to the Coordinator of the Academic Association and obtaining his/her
approval.



Article 77 Raising of Funds for the Academic Association

77a. The Executive Committee of the Academic Association may collect a nominal
membership fee from all the members of the Common Body on a semester-wise
basis.

77b. The amount must be approved by the Faculty In-charge of the Academic
Association and the Treasurer, Council of Student Affairs.

77c. It is mandatory for every Academic Association member to pay this amount in
due time. This membership fee has to be collected on a semester-wise basis.



                                         46
77d. The Executive Committee of the Academic Association is permitted to raise
funds through Sponsorship from Individuals/Associations (Private) / Groups /
Industries with the approval of the Faculty In-charge of the Academic Association
and the Treasurer, Council of Student Affairs.

77e. The funds can also be raised by any other means after the approval of the
Faculty In-charge.



Article 78 Certification Policy of the Office Bearers

78a. The members of the Executive Committee of an Academic Association will
be awarded a Certificate of Appreciation for their performance as an Office Bearer
at the end of the tenure.

78b. The Certificate will bear the Logo of the BITS, Pilani University and the
signatures of Director, BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus; Group Leader and Faculty In-
charge of the Academic Association.

78c. In case, an Office Bearer resigns from his/her post or is disentitled due to any
reason before the end of the tenure will not be awarded a Certificate.

78d. If the Executive Committee of the Association feels the need of awarding a
certificate to any other member of the Common Body including the Sub-committee
members, they may do so with the approval of President, CSA and the Faculty In-
charge of the Academic Association. This certificate must bear the Logo of the
BITS, Pilani University and the signatures of the Faculty In-charge of the
Academic Association; President, Council of Student Affairs and Coordinator of
the Academic Association.

                                         47
Part IV Clubs and Other Student Bodies



Article 79 Definition of a Club

79a. Any group formed by the CSA or any student member of the General Body
(subject to the approval of the CSA) for any specific purpose aimed at improving
the student life socially, culturally, professionally or technically is called a Club.



Article 80 Procedure for starting a Club and Club Transactions

80a. A student interested in starting a Club shall submit a report on the activities of
the proposed Club to any member of the CSA who will in-turn forward it to the
Vice-president, CSA.

80b. The Vice-president, CSA shall convene a meeting of all the members of the
Electorate Body (Refer Clause 80c.) and put forth the proposal of the new Club.

80c. The Vice-president, CSA decides whether to classify the Club as technical or
cultural. The Electorate Body consists all Cultural Representatives from hostels for
a cultural Club and the Academic Representatives from the Academic Associations
for a technical Club.

80d. The Vice-president also calls upon the Club Coordinators whose Clubs might
share an area of interest with that of the new proposed Club. These Club
Coordinators address the Electorate Body after which voting takes place (Refer
Clause 80c.). The aspiring Club Coordinator must also be invited for the meeting.


                                           48
80e. If the proposal is passed with a simple majority, the Vice-president shall then
proceed to release a notice permitting students to join the Club.

80f. If more than twenty (may be relaxed by the Vice-president for special cases)
students have submitted their names for the Club, the Vice-president may place the
Club under probation period.

80g. The Club will be put up under a probation period of four working months. At
the end of every month, the Club coordinator would have to submit a report to the
Vice-president, CSA clearly mentioning the activities and achievements of the
Club and the benefits that a member(s) or the Institute has gained from the Club
activities.

80h. At the end of the probation period, the Vice-president shall hold a discussion
with the Executive Committee of the CSA on all the reports submitted by the
Coordinator, the Club might be registered under CSA or given another period of
probation at the discretion of the Vice-president, CSA.



Article 81 Composition of a Club

81a. All Clubs shall consist of an Executive Committee, Core Committee and other
Sub-committees and Visiting Members.

81b. The Executive Committee will consist of a Coordinator and a Sub-
coordinator.

81c. The Core Committee will consist of the Executive Committee and the
Secretary of each of the other Sub-committees. (Refer Clause 81e.)


                                         49
81d. The Core Committee in consultation with CSA may form other Sub-
committees at their discretion.

81e. Each Sub-committee will be lead by one Secretary who will be a part of the
Core Committee.

81f. No restriction exists on the maximum number of students joining a Club.

Explanation VII All Members of the Club

All members of the Club include the Executive, Core and other Sub-committee
members. Individuals who help in organizing and managing the activities of the
Club shall be made a part of any Sub-committee of the Club as deemed appropriate
by the Executive Committee of the Club. Individuals who only participate in the
events of the Club but are not involved with any organizational/managerial activity
will not be called as members of the Club.



Article 82 Membership Details

82a. A student may apply for Club Membership when applications for the same are
invited by the Club.

82b. The decision of granting the membership to a particular candidate rests with
the Core Committee of the Club only.

82c. Applications for the membership of the Club must be invited by the Club at
the beginning of each semester. A notice regarding the same must be displayed on
all hostel notice-boards.



                                        50
82d. A candidate who is a member of the General Body of the CSA may apply for
the membership of the Club.

82e. A student cannot be a member of more than three Clubs.

82f. The members of the Working Committee of the previous year will become the
Acting Working Committee.



Article 83 Powers and Functions of all the Members of the Club

83a. The functions of the Coordinator are as follows:

83a.1The Coordinator has to monitor and control the activities of the Sub-
coordinator, Core Committee and all Sub-committees.

83a.2 The Coordinator has to organize the meetings of all members of the Club and
chair them. Such meetings should be held at least once a month.

83a.3 The Coordinator must keep a record of all the activities of the Club.

83a.4 The Coordinator has to approve or modify the activities proposed by other
members.

83a.5 The Coordinator acts as a link between the Club and the CSA.

83a.6 The Coordinator plans activities and events for the academic year on a
semester-wise basis and informs them to the Vice-president, CSA.

83a.7 The Coordinator prepares and maintains all the essential documents of the
Club.

83b. The functions of the Sub-coordinator are as follows:
                                         51
83b.1 The Sub-coordinator maintains the minutes of all members meetings.

83b.2 The Sub-coordinator acts as the Coordinator in his/her absence.

83b.3 The Sub-coordinator has to prepare the budget of the Club for the academic
year on a semester-wise basis.

83b.4 The Sub-coordinator has to present the accounts to the CSA and all members
of the Club at end of each semester. The accounts must clearly mention the funds
raised, funds spent and the balance amount.

83b.5 The Sub-coordinator must control all the expenses made by the Club.

83b.6 The Sub-coordinator maintains a record of the expenses regularly and submit
it to the Treasurer, CSA at least once a month.

83c. The functions of the Secretary are as follows:

83c.1 The Secretary must keep all his/her Sub-committee members informed about
the decisions taken by the Core Committee.

83c.2 The Secretary must organize and manage the activities of the Sub-committee
and keep the Core Committee of the Club informed about them.

83d. The Sub-committees must perform the duties and roles as assigned by the
Core Committee of the Club.



Article 84 Manner of Selection of All Members of the Club

84a. The outgoing Core Committee shall organize the selection process of the next
Core Committee and Sub-committees of the Club.
                                         52
84b. The candidates interested in applying for the posts of the Core Committee are
required to give their credentials including their professional, technical and
managerial experience along with a Statement of Purpose in writing to the out-
going Core Committee. The Statement of Purpose must clearly indicate the
objectives of the candidate and the strategies planned to achieve these objectives.

84c. Any number of nominations are invited for the posts of the Core Committee.

84d. The entire selection process including the declaration of results must be
completed at least one week before the start of the Comprehensive Examination of
the second semester of an academic year. The Vice-president, CSA has to be
informed by the Acting Coordinator about the results of the selection process.

84e. The tenure of all the members of the Club comprises of two semesters of one
academic year.

84f. The newly selected Core Committee of the Club will select the members of
the various Sub-committees. All decisions regarding the selection process of the
Sub-committee members rests with the newly selected Core Committee.

84g. The selection procedure shall be supervised by the Executive Committee,
CSA.



Article 85 Eligibility Criteria for all the Members of the Club

85a. All the candidates interested in applying for the membership of the Core
Committee must have been a member of the Club for one complete academic year.



                                         53
85b. A candidate must not be denied membership of the Core Committee on the
basis of his/her CGPA or his/her placement under the purview of the ACB.

85c. The Core Committee of the Club will be selected by a simple majority of the
members of the ex-officio Core Committee.



Article 86 Impeachment of Members of the Club

86a. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by any of the Core Committee
members may lead to their expulsion by the Vice-president, CSA after receiving
the consent of the Executive Committee, CSA.

86b. The Core Committee of the Club may dissolve a Sub-committee or expel any
of its members after giving them a single warning.

86c. The members of the Core Committee can be expelled at any point in their
term if two-thirds of the Club members pass a no confidence motion. (Refer Clause
86d.)

86d. The no confidence motion can be moved by any member of the Club after
having the written consent of any one member of the Core Committee and the
Vice-president, CSA. This no confidence motion shall be introduced in an
extraordinary meeting convened by the Core Committee with at least one week of
advance notice to all members. This meeting should be chaired by the Vice-
president, CSA.

86e. Placement of a member of the Core Committee in the Disciplinary Committee
shall lead to his/her disentitlement. The individual must be shifted to any of the
Sub-committee.
                                        54
86f. In case, the Executive Committee of the CSA feels the need to dissolve the
entire Club, it may do so in the following way:

86f.1 The Club has to be given a warning for a term of one working month before
the dissolution proposal is filed to the Electorate Body (Refer Clause 80c.). If their
performance is still unsatisfactory then the Vice-president may call for a meeting
of the Electorate Body.

86f.2 The Vice-president, CSA needs to clearly state the reasons for the proposal
of the dissolution of the Club to the Electorate Body.

86f.3 If the proposal is passed with two-thirds majority, the Club stands dissolved.



Article 87 Resignation Procedure for all the Members of the Club

87a. The member of the Core Committee may resign at any point of their tenure by
submitting a resignation letter to the President, Council of Student Affairs. The
reasons for the resignation must be clearly mentioned in the letter.

87b. The resignation of the Coordinator and Sub-coordinator must be approved by
the Executive Committee of the Council of Student Affairs.

87c. The vacancy of a post arising due to resignation is to be filled within a time
period of two weeks by the selection procedure mentioned in Article 84.

87d. The members of the Sub-committees may resign by submitting a resignation
letter to the Coordinator of the Club and obtaining his/her approval.




                                         55
Article 88 Raising of Funds

88a. The Core Committee can collect a nominal membership fee from all the
members of the Club. The amount must be approved by the Vice-president and
Treasurer, Council of Student Affairs.

88b. The Core Committee of the Club is permitted to raise funds through
Sponsorship from Individuals/Associations (Private) / Groups / Industries with the
approval of the Vice-president and Treasurer, Council of Student Affairs.

88c. The funds can be raised by any other means after the approval of the Vice-
president and Treasurer, CSA.

88d. A registered Club may apply to the CSA for monetary support.

88e. The Club placed under the probation period may be provided monetary
support by the CSA.

88f. The Club which is not registered with the CSA has no right to request for
monetary support to the CSA.



Article 89 Certification Policy for all the Members of the Club

89a. The members of the Core Committee of a Club will be awarded a Certificate
of Appreciation for their performance as an office bearer at the end of the tenure.

89b. The Certificate will bear the Logo of the BITS, Pilani University and the
signatures of Director, BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus; Faculty In-charge (Refer
Clause 89c.) and Vice-president, CSA.


                                         56
89c. The Faculty In-charge of the Club is the Faculty In-charge, Cultural Activities
of BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus for a cultural Club and Faculty In-charge, Student
Welfare Division of BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus for a technical Club.

89d. In case, a member resigns from his/her post or is expelled due to any reason
before the end of the tenure he/she will not be awarded a Certificate.

89e. The Sub-committee members of the Club shall receive a Certificate of
Appreciation bearing the Logo of the BITS, Pilani University and the signatures of
the Faculty In-charge (Refer Clause 89c.); Vice-president, Council of Student
Affairs and Coordinator, Club.

89f. If the Core Committee of the Club feels the need of awarding a certificate to
any other member of the General Body for their performance in some activity, they
may do so with the approval of Vice-president, CSA. This certificate must bear the
Logo of the BITS, Pilani University and the signatures of the Faculty In-charge
(Refer Clause 89c.); Vice-president, Council of Student Affairs and Coordinator,
Club.

89g. Members of the Club placed under probation period are not entitled to receive
any certificate from the CSA.

89h. Members of the Club which are not registered by the CSA will not be
certified by the CSA.



Article 90 Code of Conduct for the Members of the Club

90a. A member of a Club should not resort to physical or verbal abuses under any
circumstances.
                                         57
90b. Ragging of students is completely banned.

90c. Minimum level of decorum has to be maintained during the proceedings of
the Club activity.

90d. Any member of the Club may present his/her views/opinions/comments
during Club meetings with permission from the Core Committee of the Club.

90e. The regulation of the property owned by the Club (in turn the CSA) has to be
done in consultation with the Executive Committee of the Club and the Executive
Committee, CSA.

90f. Property owned by individuals is exempted from Clause 90e.

90g. Any activity performed under the name of the Club inside or outside the
campus must have prior consent of the Core Committee of the Club and the CSA.

90h. The Executive Committee, CSA is the final authority in case of disputes
between two or more Clubs; or between Clubs and elected representatives.

90i. If any of the members of the Executive Committee, CSA discovers that the
working of Club is not satisfactory; the Executive Committee may intervene in the
functioning of the Club and make a regulatory decision.



Article 91 Other Student Bodies

91a. Every student body which is not registered by the CSA must have a Faculty
Coordinator.




                                        58
91b. A student body formed on the basis of race, colour, sex, age, national or
ethnic origin, religion & hostel cannot be registered under the CSA.

91c. The unregistered student bodies are not permitted to apply for monetary
support to the CSA nor will they be certified by the CSA.

91d. In case of a dispute between a non-registered student body and the CSA, the
issue should be reported to the Faculty Coordinator, Student Welfare Division
(SWD) and his/her decision is final and binding.




                                        59
Part V Events, Festivals and Other Student Activities



Article 92 Events Charter

92a. The Events Charter describes the manner in which an inter-college event
which is hosted by BITS, Pilani – Goa Campus has to be organized and managed.

92b. It describes the structure of the student bodies involved in the organization of
the event and the duties and roles of the individuals involved in organizing it.



Article 93 Other Student Activities

93a. The organization of all other intra-college festivals and other student activities
must be approved by the Executive Committee of the CSA and must have a
Faculty Coordinator.

93b. The group of individuals interested in organizing the festival or activity must
unanimously select a Coordinator and Treasurer from amongst themselves.

93c. The student Coordinator must inform the CSA about all the individuals
involved with the activity and their specific roles and duties.

93d. The Coordinator must keep the CSA updated about the decision taken by the
organizing body. The student Coordinator is always answerable to the Executive
Committee of the CSA.

93e. The Treasurer must present the accounts to the Treasurer, CSA and Faculty
In-charge. The accounts must clearly mention the funds raised, funds spent and the

                                          60
balance amount. After the valediction of the festival or activity, the Treasurer of
the festival has to make the budget public by displaying it on all hostel notice-
boards.

93f. The CSA may provide monetary support for these activities after the approval
of the Vice-chairman, CSA.

93g. Funds may be raised from students of the General Body of the CSA after
receiving the approval of the Faculty In-charge of the festival or activity and Vice-
chairman, CSA.

93h. In case of excessive or left-over funds, the money must be kept safely with the
Faculty Coordinator of the festival, event or activity.

93i. The CSA may certify the individuals involved with the festival or activity after
the approval of the Vice-chairman CSA.




                                          61
Part VI Election Commission



Article 94 Composition of the Election Commission

94a. The Election Commission consists of:

1) Chief Election Commissioner

2) Working Committee

3) Volunteers

The Chief Election Commissioner will also be a part of the Working Committee.



Article 95 Powers and Functions of the Election Commission

95a. The powers and functions of the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) are as
follows:

95a.1 The CEC has to monitor and control the activities of the Working Committee
and all Volunteers.

95a.2 The Coordinator has to organize the meetings of all members of the Election
Commission and chair them.

95a.3 The Coordinator must keep a record of all the activities and decision of the
Election Commission.

95a.4 The CEC acts as a link between the Election Commission and the Vice-
chairman, CSA.

                                        62
95a.5 The Coordinator prepares and maintains all the essential documents of the
Club.

95a.6 The CEC must form the Code of Conduct for candidates contesting the
elections in consultation with the Working Committee and the Vice-chairman,
CSA.

95a.7 The CEC must ensure that all members of the Election Commission are
following the Constitution and the Code of Conduct.

95a.8 The CEC must ensure that elections are held in a smooth, fair and peaceful
manner.

95b. The Working Committee must ensure that all contesting candidates do not
break any disciplinary rules of the Institute. In case, they notice any candidate
breaking the disciplinary rules of the Institute, they must immediately report it to
the Chief Election Commissioner.

95c. In case, the Working Committee notices any misbehaviour from any candidate
or failure to adhere with the Code of Conduct, they must immediately report it to
Chief Election Commissioner.

95d. The Working Committee must help in ensuring that elections are held in a
smooth, fair and peaceful manner.

95e. The Volunteers must perform any duty assigned to them by the CEC prior,
during or after the elections have taken place.




                                          63
Article 96 Manner of Selection of the Election Commission

96a. The members of the Working Committee of the Election Commission will be
selected by the Vice-chairman of the CSA in consultation with the President, CSA.

96b. The Vice-chairman, CSA in consultation with the Working Committee of the
Election Commission will select a Chief Election Commissioner from amongst the
Working Committee itself.

96c. Volunteers will be selected by the Vice-chairman, CSA in consultation with
the Chief Election Commissioner.



Article 97 Term of a Member of the Election Commission

97a. Once an individual is selected in the Working Committee, he/she continue to
hold office till he/she passes out from the Institute unless he/she resigns or is
impeached.



Article 98 Resignation of a Member of the Election Commission

98a. Any member of the Election Commission (except the Chief Election
Commissioner) may resign at any point of the tenure by writing an application
clearly mentioning the reason for resignation to the Chief Election Commissioner
who will in turn forward it to the Vice-chairman, CSA. After the approval of the
Vice-chairman of the CSA, the member stands relieved.




                                       64
98b. The Chief Election Commissioner may directly submit his/her resignation to
the Vice-chairman, CSA. After the approval of the Vice-chairman of the CSA,
he/she stands relieved.



Article 99 Impeachment of a Member of the Election Commission

99a. Failure to adhere with the Constitution by any of the Election Commission
members may lead to their disentitlement by the Vice-chairman, CSA.

99b. If the members of the Election Commission fail to follow the Code of
Conduct, the Vice-chairman of the CSA may impeach them.



Article 100 Code of Conduct for the Members of the Election Commission

100a. Any member of the Election Commission should not resort to physical or
verbal abuses under any circumstances.

100b. Any member of the Election Commission shall not participate or help in
campaigning for any candidate under any circumstance.

100c. Any member of the Election Commission is prohibited from attending any
campaign meetings of any candidate.

100d. Any member of the Election Commission shall not make any statement
written or verbal against or in favour of the manifesto of a candidate.




                                         65
Article 101 Certification Policy for the Election Commission

101a. The members of the Election Commission will receive a Certificate of
Appreciation at the end of their tenure. The Certificate will bear the Logo of the
BITS, Pilani University and the signatures of Director, BITS, Pilani - Goa Campus
and Vice-chairman, CSA.

101d. In case, a member resigns from his/her post or is disentitled due to any
reason before the end of the tenure he/she will not be awarded a Certificate.




                                         66
Part VII Amendments to the Constitution



Article 102 Manner of creating Amendments to the Constitution

102a. Any member of the General Body or the CSA may request an amendment to
the Constitution by writing a proposal to the President, CSA clearly mentioning the
reason of dissatisfaction with a particular Clause or Article.

102b. After discussing with the Executive Committee of the CSA, if the change is
deemed necessary by the President, CSA; he/she may forward it to the Vice-
chairman, CSA.

102c. The President, CSA in consultation with the Vice-chairman, CSA may form
a Special Body consisting of members of the Election Commission or ex-CSA
members to review the proposal for amending the Constitution.

102d. The Special Body needs to submit a report within one week directly to the
President, CSA mentioning whether the proposal needs to be considered further or
be rejected clearly mentioning the reasons.

102e. In case, the Special Body is in favour of the proposal, the President of the
CSA must call a joint meeting of the Special Body and Council of Student Affairs.
The Chief Election Commissioner must be present for this meeting as a Supervisor.

102f. The President shall announce the proposal for the amendment to the
Constitution and voting shall be held. (For the Electorate Body, refer to Clause
102e.) The CEC does not have the right to cast vote. If the proposal is passed with
two-thirds majority, the proposal shall be forwarded to the Vice-chairman for
approval.
                                          67
102g. The Constitution can be amended only after the approval of the Vice-
chairman and Chairman of the Council of Student Affairs.

102h. After the proposal has been approved by the Chairman, CSA, the President
of the CSA has to make the amendment public by displaying it on all notice-boards
and the consequent Constitution Drafts shall carry the amendments.




                                       68
